---
title: "53 May 19"
description: ""
slug: ""
author: "Hudson Gardner"
date: "2020-05-19T18:28:04-06:00"
draft: true
toc: false
comments: true
cover:
tags:
typora-root-url: ../../content
---

Sometimes I want to post pictures of old friends that I don't talk to anymore, for one reason or another. I don't know why I don't talk to them in some cases—in other cases it's clear. 

Sometimes I want to post pictures of old girlfriends who I'm pretty sure don't read or look at anything I make anymore—but then I don't ever post them. I'm not sure why I keep those photos hanging around on my hard drive. Maybe it's because I still appreciate that period of my life, even though it didn't work out. I think it's possible to going on loving someone even though that love didn't result in lifelong love.

Though I'm not very old, I'm not sure I believe in life long love anyway. Just one day for me is a series of distracting thoughts that carry me in different direction. There is no clear path that lines up, as there really isn't if one takes a look carefully. Just like walking through a forest, it's possible to stay on one route, but then again that's not very interesting.

Then again, sticking to one thing despite distractions also leads to a different experience of endless distraction. I always hear that this path is supposed to be better than the other one, of trying lots of things. I remember once someone told me, when I was 19 and trying to make a living as a freelance photographer in Portland, Oregon that I was going to have to choose something one day. Because that's what she did.

You see, the interesting thing about this situation is that I never listened to advice like that. I actually did the opposite. I chose what interested me, and if my interests shifted, my life direction shifted. I was defiant when the successful freelance photographer in Portland told me I had to pick something, but not defiant for the sake of defiance. I was defiant because I was confident that it was possible to walk my own path.

To have a lot of money, friends, influence—to be comfortable, safe and secure—that's the goal, right? That's some people's goal. But it doesn't have to be everyone's, right?

You see, the very act of writing these thoughts down has been a journey of inspiration. I didn't set out to write anything in particular. I wrote this out because I scrolled by yet again a photo of an old girlfriend, and really wondered about my reluctance to either post or delete it. Then I started hammering out those first two paragraphs, and suddenly by the end I'm talking about how I choose to live. You see, I don't know if writing that comes truly can be struck upon in any other way for me. I don't think rigorous following of techniques is my way. And thus my whole "life path."

I guess it's impossible for me *not* to be more astounded with every passing year.  
Every season, I see a little more.  
The feeling that I get in autumn cannot be explained in words.  
It's like the feeling of an endless dusk,  
or saying goodbye.   
The end of a long trail, of thoughts and actions  
combines into a stream of moments.  
These moments spread out into the past  
and then there is always something called "the future".

But in the autumn I just see red and yellow leaves  
and little raindrops on the edges of plants—
and knowing the salmon are coming back in some places still—
little sparks in my dark mind, lights from a flame
happening here and there.