---
title: "The Flowing Heart Of The Mountain"
description: ""
slug: ""
author: "Hudson Gardner"
date: "2020-05-29T18:00:27-06:00"
draft: false
toc: false
comments: true
cover: /2020-May/30-1.jpg
tags:
typora-root-url: ../../content
---

Maybe there will be a place  
there may be a place, there could be a place:  
A high ridge  
Littered with white rocks  
Above a flat valley  
free of snow.  

Green things growing in the valley below.  
A stream flows through the middle, there may be a place,  
there *might* be a place  
if you stay on the ridge for long enough  
looking down at the valley for about  
a thousand years  
enough to see the bristlecones grow and some die  
and some live, there may be a place  
—a place on a high ridge  
there may be a place there where you can sit and watch  
as the boulders do  
for a long time  
the water flow out of a spring in the side of a hill.

There: the cow valley, once aspen ground,  
now thigh bones bleached white near the stellar's jay's spruce.  
In the center of valley  
there are a few rocks covered with orange lichen  
—yellow, blue, green, and red—  
the sunsets too, you can see  
when sitting at the far end of the valley  
where a chipmunk lives above the stream  
and sits out on his porch to watch the whole valley, forever  
but only for a few years.

Long enough to know where life comes from, living above the stream itself  
as it flows perfectly clear and cold  
from below his rockside home.

Clear at the source, the water cuts deeply where the cows go too many times  
and muddies before the marsh halfway across.  
The marsh is drying, and the snow less every year.  
And I lay under engelmann spruce,  
my head on a tussock.  
A place where the stream is half muddied, and still maybe as it was once  
clear and drinkable straight from the source.

My eyes drift from sky to land to water.  
To hear the burble of this glassy fluid, one has to listen.  
A small bee lands not an inch from my eye  
and cleans his antennae off patiently  
then flies off to save the whole world.

I hear if you lay there long enough  
the rocks begin to speak  
"though you are very small  
you are very important"  
They whisper to the stream  
and the bee  
and the chipmunk  
to the wind, the trees  
the groves of nettles under fir trees,  
and they say this  
to me—  
The flowing heart of the mountain.

